1.First the general stance on Linux is derived from UNIX where they assume the user is computer literate and wants to empower them with all the power that the interface has to offer.
* One aspect of the philosiphy is The terminal case, give the user what they want to work with with mutiple different available terminal emulators and shells. You can use multiple shells along one CLI session, and run multiple emulators all at once using Linux.
* complete control- Linux allows you to have complete control over all your commands, whether they be terrible clever and intuitive or just clever, there is no hand holding.
* The Summation "Treat all users with respect"-Linux is used with felxibility, simplicity, and freedom as the foremost pillars of its philosiphy.

2. The VPS is a private server or service to servers provided by a private company on a website URL. They allow easy access and modification for users who are in need of a servers power, they also allow for very remote access and the ability to create things that arent on your own computer or client. The advantages of using a VPS are many but one of the most important is it allows a very cost effective way for small websites to maintain themselves for not much cost. They also allow for strong stability for web hosting. If you have your own VPS you aren't shoved onto a server with tons of other people and users which can generally slow down the service and accessibility of the product you've created. Thirdly, you get complete control of the root of the server. Its all yours, you get to tinker and change and optomize it to your desired specs.

3.The main reason it seems to not run out of the root user is for security purposes. when you run as a root user, any other webpage or browser that has a bug that you allow access to your server could crash it, or delete siginificant portions of your property. Also it allows for these requests to have access everywhere, which is highly susceptible to bugs and worse viruses. ALso while in root you are the most priviledged user and you can change anything you want without someone else looking over the project, you can unknowingly screw yourself up!